Baris/update docs with class api (#232)
zenml-io/zenml: docs/book/guides/class-based-api/chapter-3.md

---
description: Train some models.
---

> If you want to see the code for this chapter of the guide, head over to the [GitHub](https://github.com/zenml-io/zenml/tree/main/examples/low\_level\_guide/chapter\_3.py).

Reviewer: link will need to be updated

Author: updated the link

> Finally, we can train and evaluate our model. For this we decide to utilize the two base class, the `BaseTrainerStep` 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Finally, we can train and evaluate our model. For this we decide to utilize the two base classes, the `BaseTrainerStep` 
```

        model.fit(
            x=train_dataset,
            y=train_target,
            validation_data=(validation_dataset, validation_target),
            batch_size=config.batch_size,
            epochs=config.epochs,
        )
        model.summary()

        return model
```

### Evaluator

We can also add a simple evaluator using the `BaseEvaluatorStep`:

```python
from typing import Any, Dict, cast

import pandas as pd
import tensorflow as tf
from sklearn.metrics import classification_report

from zenml.steps.step_interfaces.base_evaluator_step import (
    BaseEvaluatorConfig,
    BaseEvaluatorStep,
)

class SklearnEvaluatorConfig(BaseEvaluatorConfig):
    label_class_column: str

class SklearnEvaluator(BaseEvaluatorStep):
    def entrypoint( 
        self,
        dataset: pd.DataFrame,
        model: tf.keras.Model,
        config: SklearnEvaluatorConfig,
    ) -> Dict[str, Any]:
        
        labels = dataset.pop(config.label_class_column)

        predictions = model.predict(dataset)
        predicted_classes = [1 if v > 0.5 else 0 for v in predictions]

        report = classification_report(labels, predicted_classes, output_dict=True)

        return report
```

> Important thing to note:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Important things to note:
```

```bash
Creating pipeline: mnist_pipeline
Cache enabled for pipeline `mnist_pipeline`
Using orchestrator `local_orchestrator` for pipeline `mnist_pipeline`. Running pipeline..
Step `importer_mnist` has started.
Step `importer_mnist` has finished in 1.819s.
Step `normalize_mnist` has started.
Step `normalize_mnist` has finished in 2.036s.
Step `tf_trainer` has started.
Step `tf_trainer` has finished in 4.723s.
Step `tf_evaluator` has started.
`tf_evaluator` has finished in 0.742s.
```

### Inspect

If you add the following code to fetch the pipeline:

```python
from zenml.core.repo import Repository

repo = Repository()
p = repo.get_pipeline(pipeline_name="mnist_pipeline")
runs = p.runs
print(f"Pipeline `mnist_pipeline` has {len(runs)} run(s)")
run = runs[-1]
print(f"The run you just made has {len(run.steps)} steps.")
step = run.get_step('evaluator')
print(
    f"The `tf_evaluator step` returned an accuracy: {step.output.read()}"
)
```

You get the following output:

```bash
Pipeline `mnist_pipeline` has 1 run(s)
The first run has 4 steps.
The `tf_evaluator step` returned an accuracy: 0.9100000262260437
```

> Wow, we just trained our first model! But have not stopped yet. What if did not want to use TensorFlow? Let's swap out our trainers and evaluators for different libraries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Wow, we just trained our first model! But we're not done yet. Suppose you don't want to use TensorFlow... Let's swap out our trainers and evaluators for different libraries.
```

Author: I have taken out this part as the next stages of the docs is still in progress.
